
# Constitution of the Computer Science Club

## Article I. Name of the Club

### Section 1.01
The name of this club shall be the Computer Science Club.

## Article II. Purpose of Club

#### Section 2.01
The purpose of this organization shall be to provide students with
experiences and knowledge that extend beyond the scope of computer
science classes.

## Article III. Membership

### Section 3.01
Any Foothill College Student with a current OwlCard (Student ID) is
eligible to join the club meetings. A voting member is  someone who has
already attended two meetings in the last 4 weeks before the meeting at
which voting takes place.

## Article IV. Qualification and Election of Officers

### Section 4.01
Officers are President, ICC representative, Vice President, and
Secretary, Other positions can and should be created by the president to
lead subdivisions of the club.

### Section 4.02
Elections shall be held on the sixth, seventh, or eighth week of the
previous quarter, and all officers must obtain a simple majority in
order to hold that position. If nobody gains the most votes, another
vote shall be held among all candidates who who tied in the vote. If,
again, no candidate receives the most votes, then the position will
remain vacant and the president will assume control of that position
until another election is held. An election for a vacant position may be
held at any other club meeting.

## Article V. Duties of the Officers

### Section 5.01 President
 *  Preside over all meetings.
 *  Call special meetings.
 *  Carry out the provisions of the constitution.
 *  Appoint committees and chairs.
 *  Oversee all committee activities.
 *  Execute the policies and procedures determined by the group.
 *  Take control of all vacant positions and execute the duties of
    officers who are unwilling or unable to do so.

### Section 5.02 ICC Representative
 *  Attend and vote at all ICC meetings: Tuesdays at 1 p.m.
 *  Prepare and submit all paperwork to ICC by Mondays 1 p.m.
 *  Report results of ICC meetings to the club as the public information
    officer for the other club.
 *  Facilitate the maintenance of records of all ICC minutes,
    announcements and petitions.

### Section 5.03 Vice President
 *  Assume the duties of the president in case of an absence.
 *  Perform duties delegated by the president.
 *  Manage all Vice Presidents, and the Secretary.

### Section 5.04 Secretary
 *  Keep and distribute accurate minutes and agendas of all official
    meetings.
 *  Act as a correspondence clerk.

## Article VI. Impeachment and Replacement of Officers

### Section 6.01
An officer may only be impeached by a two-thirds vote of the membership
(quorum), following a one-week notice of intent.

### Section 6.02
A new officer will be elected and the old officer will be replaced as
stipulated in the constitution.

## Article VII. Faculty/Staff Advisor

### Section 7.01
An advisor shall be a faculty or staff member of the Foothill-De Anza
Community College District and be the signer on the club account.

### Section 7.02
An official meeting is when 2/3 of the membership is present and the
advisor is there overseeing the processes of the meeting.

## Article VIII. Dues

### Section 8.01
Dues, if any, are determined by the general membership.

## Article IX. Meetings ICC Handbook

### Section 9.01
Meeting times are called by the president or decided by the general
membership. A quorum, a two-thirds majority vote, is needed to carry out
any legislation and to hold elections.

### Section 9.02
A quorum is a two-thirds majority of the voting members in good standing
with current dues paid. A faculty/staff advisor presence is required,
also.

### Section 9.03
Minutes & Agendas should be posted 72 hours in advance to assist in
keeping the official records of the club and to notify the public of
upcoming issues.

## Article X. Amendments

### Section 10.01
All amendments to the constitution must be passed by a quorum of
the club.
